Howdy, I'm Alan. I'm Brent and we got our names right. You know why?
Why because this is the 20th time we've done this and oh not only is it episode number 20 guess what else?
What Alan what I'll tell you it's been
Almost exactly a year since our very first a B testing podcast. Yep
Our first one was released March 31st and it is beyond that a one week beyond that. Yes
We are one more high five. Oh
Okay. All right that that was unplanned for and unprepared for we're good and
Brent was telling me if we would have been super prepared
We would have done a fancy retrospective on the year, but we're gonna save that for like 25 or some other
Something down the road when we actually put some prep time into our episode. Yeah, we'll we can continue to tell you guys
Oh, we'll do that next time
But those who have been paid attention, we don't actually remember what we left over
Yeah, we don't really have something like a
Long term format it would be wouldn't that be right weird like if we had like this this this
Strategy of what happens and what show and what sets up the thing in the next show and this big long
Like I'm imagining you know in the police shows
They have like the pictures and the strings everywhere of the trying to investigate the crime. Yes, we don't have that
We do not we should do that just like random like like books and pictures of people and things and just rent
Maybe not. No Brent says Brent's giving me the Alan shut up. I I think we would need to
Have a reason. Oh
Yeah, like the ROI of of of that. Well, it must be good. We have by all signs we have
a
Still kept our three listeners. Well, yes, and Jim Moore is one of them, you know, Jim Moore I do Jim Moore
He I've heard he uses something called a poop snorkel
How does that work I have no idea but he asked me to use the word in the podcast
So I guess it's one of his favorites
Okay. All right moving on those who know Jim no one now
That's not a surprise in any way shape or form. All right, and you can just email him at poop snorkel at Microsoft calm
Yes. All right moving on past that. I'm a big fan of
Logical fallacies, you know what logical fallacies are Brent
Actually, my I should it's too early in the morning coffee is not kicking in yet
Yeah, I had three shots of tequila on the way
No, I did not I did not and I was going to bring the tequila and as I looked up bleary eyed on a Monday morning
at
45 a.m. When I was getting ready to go to work. I thought no
Not gonna happen. So we're gonna drink coffee shots while we do our 20th episode today
I'm remembering going back to logical fallacies. I remembering. Oh, yeah, I brought that up to me had a we had a
Mutual friend of ours came in to to tag
Gosh a long time ago and walked through a presentation. Oh, oh
That was Jeff Weston Jeff for Weston, right? Yeah, and then
My son he learned logical fallacies in his
history class for some reason last year and so he's
He's a big fan of trying to use logical fallacies to win arguments with well
I think that makes sense because history is a course about learning about the past
But it's also you learn a lot of critical thinking and logical fallacies. I think line up very well with critical thinking
Yes, they do. All right
So anyway logical fallacies are when you and implies history lines up with critical thinking when you use non logical thinking to assume
I'm gonna this is not the Wikipedia or Wiktionary or whatever definition
But the easiest way to put it is you think you're using logic, but you're not or you think you have the right answer
But you're not you're using
The basis of which you draw your conclusion is not based on actual logic
What's an example Alan? Let me give you some example. There's what I see all the time in
especially in testing and software circles in general which can be
Referred to often as the anecdotal fallacy or more often when I see I like to call the hasty generalization
And we see this in data all the time this ties over to data quite a bit the hasty generalization
the hasty generalization is when I get a little bit of data from
A small sample set and I make a grand generalization about that data. You ever seen that Brent. I have quite a few times
and it's often
Very wrong. Although on the other side. I also see the reverse where
No, no, you we can't trust the data until we have a hundred percent
calculation of all the data
because because you may not be
Counting the the extremes that sort of aligns with my point. Yeah, there's probably a name for that
I'll spur the moment. I'm gonna call that the inappropriate completeness fallacy. Sure. Sure
I just made that name up somebody writing incorrect to me. So now now I got a theme. I there's a couple of them
That I'll share with you and I've actually had
High level people shared these with me in a serious conversation. Hey, Brent. Yeah
You know, I never actually got to an example of a hasty generalization. No, I talked about what sorry
So I'm gonna like I'm gonna I'm gonna let you finish
I'll finish after you I asked you for Beyonce had a great album last year
Okay
So brand two has no clue at all about pop culture. I miss that. I actively avoid it. All right, Taylor. Let's go on though
Are you gonna shake it off? Is that what you're saying? I'm gonna shake something
So what's your example? So what I see all the time is
I'll do one from like ten years ago at Microsoft actually. I'll do one from this weekend
Someone who was a tester former tester at Microsoft all of his friends were testers of Microsoft
Made a generalization that Microsoft laid off all their testers last summer to which
He was informed that no actually they laid off
Yeah, some testers got laid off
But actually every discipline every role from HR to marketing to finance to engineering were affected
Said well all my friends that got laid off for testers
Nice tasty generalizations. Yep a good example happens a lot with I talked to someone a few years ago. He said that
Some weird assumption about managers at Microsoft. Well, he said I forget what it was I
Said why would you think that it says well, I I have a friend who's a manager at Microsoft and he told me
So that's a and that really falls in the anecdotal fallacy. Maybe it's or it's one data point
I guess it's I don't know which I don't know where to draw the line between the two that that last one
I've encountered quite a bit. One of the things well as a manager at Microsoft
But a lot of times the the pattern I discovered is that the people who are sharing this
Are often in Microsoft and had been on their team
for say the last 10 years or so and they operate on the assumption that
How their team functions is actually how all of my oh, that's a very good one, too
Right. I I actually have a habit and I can you do as well kind of changing jobs every every two to four years
So in my career here, I don't even know how many different groups I've been on and I've noticed no different teams
Have very distant. Absolutely. Absolutely. I didn't watch got into a point now as as we talked
I'm on a new team and one of the first things that I'm doing is I'm trying to figure out
What is the culture of this team?
Like certain things like okay, how are they gonna do the review process because that changes team by team?
How how are they gonna decide the goals the the other one is which discipline is dominant?
Generally, it's either the dev discipline or the PM discipline that kind of rules that organization
I don't know which one of those it is yet. I
Agree completely that there are every team at Microsoft does things differently and
By talking to one team about what they do making a general vision about Microsoft is pretty far-fetched and that's
It seems I'm a very logical person. I'd like to think sometimes
but it just seems it pushes my button when someone makes a
generalization about the company based on one bit of information when it's
I got us off in the weeds here. I'm sorry. No, no, I like this topic a
Generalization that's the sort of the wrong granularity
Right. They're making a generalization. That's sort of
That's true in a certain context within the company
Absolutely, but they're broadening it up to the whole company like the the a valid generation generalization for Microsoft is
We make software
Yes, that's a valid generalization
An invalid one all PMs write code
totally
Although I've been on teams where PMs did there's a couple of them that I remember when you brought this up
from the old days
I'll save the best one for last. I've actually had an argument with
devs in in the in
The the the throws of us trying to ship right? It's always that crunch period
This is back in the the multiple discipline
Phase where there was a test discipline and the dev discipline. Yeah, cuz Microsoft doesn't do testing anymore, right? Not at all
actually, if you read some of our
the analysis of some recent products
There might be some confirmation of that there may there may be confirmation as well as logical fallacies in there
Yes, anyway, I've actually had people
In the heat of a moment actually tell me that if it weren't for test
There'd be no bugs
as if to say
Test is the one that causes the bugs
Indirectly you could say that but we're the ones but but the statement as itself is true if it weren't for test
There be no
bugs
Filed at least at least no bugs found before a ship, right?
But my favorite one this was years ago
Where I was on a team who owned the stress and performance and load
We had multiple directors attest. I had one call me that was not in my management chain and
He had had it with me. He was frustrated. He wanted to call me and get on the same page
Because he was concerned that I was
Continuing as I as I found holes. I was continuing to add test cases to my stress suite
Okay
beyond
The test complete date this was one of the themes in my career that actually had a test
I've been on a team that had a test complete date. Yes. Yeah, I
Laughed at it at the time said okay, whatever. Well, we'll crawl down the calendar and in he said
And I remember this can't keep testing. I remember this conversation like yesterday
he called me on the phone and he was trying to be diplomatic and trying to
Convince me to his point of view. He's like bring if you keep adding tests pass the test complete date
You'll find bugs and that will cause us to
Slip now I want to remind you and our audience that this was one of the directors of test
The and I said well the logic makes sense. Of course
Absolutely the the thing I said and I brought out
First off because I didn't report to him. So I wanted to to not dance around the topic. I said look
My job is to do the best to find bugs before our customers do
Your job and I didn't say it this bluntly close though
I said it is the decision of ship room of which you attend not me to decide whether or not the bugs that I file are
worth
Slipping right. I am enabling you guys to make a decision as to whether or not it's worthwhile to do this risk
Right. I feel like you're calling me saying that you believe that I'm victimizing your team or the product
When in fact what I am attempting to do is is find critical issues before the customer does
Because if the customer finds these issues
Our particular product it's four months before you can do a re-release
So if if I find if I add new test cases, which I'm going to do
I'm going to continue to do even pass we should ship and they file bugs. All right, they find bugs
It's your call to decide whether or not it's worth holding. Well, this is interesting
I don't know if this is a stick on the logical fallacy topic. I'm not sure if this is a logical fallacy or
Or what to call this but I still see this sort of thing today in his head
He's enforcing policy. Right? He said well we have code we have test complete
so we're done testing and you're doing things that are out of policy I had a situation last week where I
I'm quickly
Moderating in my head, but we had all of our builds break every build fail due to a policy change
and and the policy was valid but it broke everything and
I contacted the team that enforced the policy said hey
We need to find another way to deal with this because your current implementation breaks all of our builds
And they said did you have a heads up on the policy change? We did we did okay, and we didn't actually know
Break us or not. I said, let's turn it on
let's let's see if the change breaks us and we'll back it out if not and
Turned it on it broke. I emailed them. I said hey, we're broken
Please please revert. They said we can't revert its policy. So wait a minute
Wait a minute. I didn't take I reiterated the fact we don't have builds
we have you know, we have a dozen repos for building in all CI and
All none of them are working. So I want one more emails. Okay, we'll turn them back on
And they're back on us an email and I said hey things are working. Thank you said okay now that we've confirmed that
The policy is in fact the issue. We're going to turn it back off. So no, no, don't do that
Don't do that, but it's policy and it went on
It's a little bit like spinal tap our amps go to 11 and the policy is not turned on right now
We are going to
Get an exception or a worker. It's our builds are not gonna break
They finally got through their head those are important, but it's another case where this happened
Almost every team I've I can probably recall dozens of examples of enforcing the policy
overrides doing the right thing
Yep, and that's kind of what happened in your case and then one other two other stories
that your story and reminded me of is I was on a team once where
half joking but half serious to
they
The director said we should send the testers home
So we don't find as many bucks. I they were half joking
But I don't think they're all the way joking and then then my favorite story is see that
Like what's the policy? Do you think that they're doing? Is it just oh in order to ship?
I think it'd be bug-free. I don't know. I think they were trying to get to maybe
Down to a certain bug count they wanted to fix the bug curve
So incoming wasn't as high as fixed rate and I think and they did this is one of those things this yeah and sure
So I think we're targeting the wrong
Goal right they do. Yes think and this is for leadership as well as those
Wanting to inform leadership. I think it's important to keep track of the goal you're shooting for
I was on a team once where the dev team was way behind
they were writing very poor code and
They all decided that they were gonna come in their direct side. We're gonna come in on the weekend
We're gonna we're gonna make some progress here get ourselves under control
And that gray and the developer simple what I mean the test team isn't coming in aren't we if aren't we just one team and?
Said alright fun
Test team we're gonna come in. We didn't feel like we were behind
but we came in and
Damn it if the dev team didn't leave their weekend of work with more bugs, and they started with be careful
But again we wanted the we need a team come around and really what we needed was a culture change
Mm-hmm, and that wasn't gonna happen over the weekend, but look we dug ourselves a hole and
Getting out of that hole isn't always the easiest thing in the world now in triggering and triggering weekend time
Right because everyone
Just wants to get done so they can go back home and spend time with their families that the
Forcing weekend time is a great way to assure
System thinking does not happen during that period of time absolutely absolutely hey
I almost want to jump to our fourth topic you said you had another story
Oh that was both of them one was oh what there were two in there, okay? When you go back and listen to this
I'll detect the segue yeah, you can you can get this so
We get this question
Not I'm not gonna call us a mailbag question
But we do we had a question a few weeks ago on you know what do test specialists do at Microsoft and then a little
Variation on that I had someone come my office last week and ask me a question
That wasn't the first time. I've heard this question. It's more like wasn't even the second more like the 10th and
It's gonna lead to a discussion that I'd like you to have with me if you can take that journey with me Brett
I will do my best
The story went like this they said I gotta talk
Said what's up cuz I do a lot of coaching mentoring what I call a test therapy. Well. I'm sorry
We don't have testers engineering therapy
He said I really love my job. I love what I love that term
Engineering therapist no test therapy. Yeah, okay. I haven't I use that before here no
Oh, it's my it's it should be my full-time job test colleges
That's no
It sounds wrong doesn't it yeah?
so anyway anyway now that I have awkward thoughts in my head I
Alright he came to my opposite. He's not a combined
Combined word I hate a unified engineering team an engineering team a team where oh my god
There are no testers the sky is falling. It's a former tester says I love my job
I love what I'm doing. I work with great people the technology is freakin awesome says it but the work. I'm doing is I'm
doing a lot of infrastructure work and
Making sure our inner and outer loop tests our short tests and our long tests are running and kind of making sure everything sticks together
Which am I head with yep?
This is the this is the value that the test specialist brings to the team at systems thinking its generalization
It's making sure the big picture all works together
It's the kind of crap. I love to and he says and my manager very supportive really likes me then I have my skip level
And he said and my skip level said you know really like the work you're doing
But you don't really have a feature to hang your hat on and Brent made the sound that went off in my head I said well
That's interesting, and I think a big transition teams need to make when they go to a team of
disciplines to specializing generalists and generalizing specialists is
That not everyone on the team the counting
Developer productivity by counting features completed is no longer the right actually never was the right math
But it cannot be the right math you cannot build in my opinion
I know I talked about this a quality product when everybody is just a plain old feature developer you
Those people that can be the glue to make everything stick together and define the holes etc the former testers the people with that test
Or system thinking or critical thinking mindset those are the people that are critical in my opinion to your the success of your product
So it was interesting that and again in this case it falls back to his
Management chain is very much work item driven development
Everything your bugs are not even consider. It's very much
Getting features done is how you're counted and how you're how you're
valued on the team
I have a lot of opinions on this but with that set up
I'll just kind of see where you are Brent if you're still with me Brent's
Seriously scrolling notes. I am a little posties
I'm not sure if he can read his writing or if he knows which order he wants to talk about them in
But Brent I will make it up as usual of course you will so
This very well aligns
With our theme today. We have a holy wait pause we have a theme it does we do all right go on
All the go us so we talked about generalizations
Now we're talking about generalists
Right and later generally enough
Um
Speaking of which
So you've seen those commercials where they replace the General Lee with like?
Like Corvette or something like that. It's so easy to bring you off target. It totally is
I just find I can't put my finger on it, but there's something wrong that I just don't like about the new car
Anyway, okay going on
So the team I just left
They're having actually a struggle and one of the struggles there was a
Non-trivial battle for about a month
around
So let me wind back a second the team I left just before I left they did emerge they had a
number of people who have understanding of agile and
They got another 50% of people who really didn't have an understanding and a good portion of them came from the dev org
Okay, and what you just called out is this this feature
idea
the
Dev management is trained
That the way you differentiate people is by what features did they build?
And how important were those features or how complex were those features right so the review process in the dev org is
Sort of in my view a dysfunctional supporting loop for the specialist
Mm-hmm. We want
deep
specialization we want
Those specializations to continue to be valuable
right
In my least favorite one is
specialists get rewarded for their ability to handle the complexity of
a particular feature area
regardless of how it got complex
Right I've been on teams where where a developer was the only guy who understood this code
And he was the only one who wrote that code for last five years and now it's hacktastic
And he's getting rewarded for over the period of five years of building crap
You can think of it as it's not really rewarded, but it's sort of
specialization blackmail I
Got away with job security. No one else knows how this works and no one wants to unwind it
And no one can there's often a window of opportunity
We we are gonna need seven years to fix all the hacks that you put in over the last five years
But no one's having that conversation
We've all seen that code my entire career. I've seen that I know that person I know that
In general that person and I know that code
the difference between in this context the difference between the generalization the generalists and
The specialists and we've agreed
Multiple occasions now that we don't like either of these guys
But the difference between in the model that we have right now specialists have something concrete that they can
Put their hat on and the generalists because they're evaluating the system. It's not concrete
It's hard to measure. It's hard to at a review cycle
I'm known for being a change agent. I can talk to a bunch of people every team. I've left in the last
Four teams has been extremely sad to see me go because they know how I've helped change the culture
And they know that I how they know subjectively from a personal standpoint that I've accelerated them and the culture
But you can't measure that crap. Well
Everything has don't you can but no one does not you're right and many many many podcasts go I
talked about
You know how I value people on my team's and I again
I don't manage people but I put a lot of effort into thinking how do we value these people and I think the traditional
dev
programming manager
Mindset is I value you based on
Output and maybe the difficulty of that output. Maybe those two factors
That's a little little bit of a twist and summary of what you just said
Yeah, how would you get done? How hard was it to do? It's size complexity and date
Hitting your shift date regardless of the quality on that date
Whereas I you know working
mostly with test teams in my career
I am looking at output output is something I value. I'm also looking at
It's like three or four things. I'm really gonna make sure that you do one is output
You're getting work done to business impact of that output
I've seen a lot of people do go off on researchy science project kind of things that are really complex really hard
But don't really impact how the team does work and business impact can be bottom line on the software product
It can be engineering efficiency on the team and then the other really important one is how well do you work and help with others?
And that's where the generalist
Can show some value the person is more of a generalist is gonna have lots of that you go
Well, I helped out here and I helped that here and I did this and I helped these people work together and
as you know at Microsoft at least we don't have a good any system really for measuring peer feedback or how
Well others perceive you
And that blocks that a lot
So you have to do a lot you have to as a manager instead of spending your time in the work item tracking system looking at
Who's getting what features done instead as a people manager?
You actually have to interact with people instead of your damn tools in order to figure out how your team's doing
And to me it's not rocket science and I had I had I don't want to single people out
I had a director of dev come to me once and say if we were doing things in a more
Agile manner and we're doing things like you're talking about Alan. How do I hold my devs accountable?
How do I know if you know who is who is pulling their weight and who's not I said look
Get your head out of the work item tool if as a manager
So you're you're you're direct report if they don't know how everybody on their team is doing these aren't large teams
If they don't have an idea of who's pulling their weight and who's not outside of the work item tracking tool
They're not gonna know inside you need to get your head out and pay attention to people
I kind of crawled up on a soapbox without using the soapbox theme, but we have a soapbox theme
I don't know. Oh, but I didn't like yell. I didn't like announce I was getting on the soap
I didn't announce I was getting on the soapbox nor do I need to but I got there and
Went off a little bit, but I think you get the gist of it
You need to if you want a unified engineering team or an agile team
you need to get out of the practice of
Counting work items done and features done as the sole way of measuring how much value someone has for your organization
it's like the current problem as I see it is it's
Hawthorne's effect gone awry
You get well, yeah, you always get what you measure
You do but what what they have is that they have sort of this principle around
more features
right
Not even balance as to whether or not that feature added value or was a waste
Right the fact that you just finished the FUBAR widget feature
and
Three days early and it was a month feature and you got it three days early. Hey way to go Alan
Thank you the fact that no one's using it
And it sucks
Sure
That may be why no one's using it right the but in in the current model. That's PMS problem
I built the requirements I built to the requirements
right, whereas
in an agile model
when deployed
Right it the works not done until you validated that it achieved the goal not the requirements, but the goal
Why are we building this feature?
I
Get that same question quite a bit. There's this concern about
People not being able to
differentiate in an agile process people
Not being able to scope to their to their ladder level
And how do I track these guys? How do I hold them accountability? I think it requires and to me it's just
It requires a different manager mindset different management style than the traditional command to control bean counter management
The thing that I I tell each and every one of them
I'm like look I'll try to argue and tell you how it works
You're not gonna believe me and I'll say the easiest way is you try to execute it for a few months
Because the one thing that happens with the model is that you become more it becomes more transparent
Actually how the team functions
You very clearly understand
there's a there's a couple of people who are very talented at accelerating and helping others and
You you begin to see
How that has positively affected the team even though in the extreme they may not even have an area that they directly own
right sure the
You it gives you the ability to see the system and begin to measure it and
In the system is what matters not the local optimization
Absolutely. So on my team. I
Shouldn't call out my team. So on a team very close to mine that is not Alan's team
so
Despite our best intentions we ended up in sort of a feature rush
So let's get the work items done. Let's get them done by the date
We said they get done and then we'll deal with another
Terminator not super happy with a stabilization phase
Yeah, where we try and test quality into the product or sorry where we stabilized, right?
and
What happens in these is when we we find and identify and remove all the bugs that we just spent
The last 48 hours adding to the product, right, right? So I
Want to ease into a little bit more on the hero topic and friend and I have talked about heroes before and and heroes are
Okay, if someone's role on the team is to be the hero and often that can be like the super
You know the super general stuking I can be the hero here. I can be the hero. That's my job
I gotta go figure things out
But I think what often happens on a team where you're driving towards a feature complete deadline is you celebrate the hero who?
Stays all weekend to get the feature done
Stays all night get the feature done and then you celebrate that same hero again when a month later
he stays a whole weekend to fix his backlog of bugs and
Is it just me or does that seem like the wrong sort of hero celebration? It's absolutely wrong
We're so almost a rhetorical question, but I'm glad you answered we're celebrating
Doing what it takes to hit the date
Yeah, and and again it goes back to we're talking about before think about what is the goal
If you want to celebrate and I'm all for publicly celebrating
Things on software teams, but you want to publicly celebrate the things that your team values because it encourages other people to adopt those values
You're gonna encourage hitting the date people gonna go. Yeah, I want to hit the date, too
I'm gonna write crummy code
But what you want to value is I want to celebrate Wow Brent
You did a lot of work to help the team out here you you improved our efficiency. I'm gonna celebrate that publicly
I'm gonna celebrate the fact that
Developer Joe or team fubar has
Finished their feature and say that zero bugs the entire way through
I want to I want to celebrate those things and I want to celebrate the behavior I want to encourage
Yeah, if I don't it's just maybe a better way to put that is I don't want to celebrate
Someone staying all weekend to fix a bunch of bugs they created because they were hasty in the first place
Because that is not the behavior. I want to encourage. I may just for morale
I make I may say thank you to that developer in person say hey
I know you know you were behind and under my breath
I'll think because you wrote crappy code because you're in a hurry and you relate in the first place and blah blah blah
It's probably not his fault
But I don't want to publicly celebrate behaviors that I do not want the rest of the team to adopt
Yes, that's correct and I want to do the opposite
If I want if I'm a people manager again getting my head out of work item tracking I
Want to think about what are the behaviors?
I want my team to have and then when I see examples of that
I'm gonna be do a big woohoo and celebrate them because people like that
That's even that's even more motivating people sometimes than than money or other things like yeah
I want to be celebrated like that person. I'm gonna do that thing, too
Yes, I'm big on team values and I and I think that sometimes we blow them the in software in general and
At Microsoft off my soapbox again. I gotta stop bringing the damn so you know that we got to find a way
to
Step wise kill the hill hero culture at this company and it's pervasive
Sort of a catch-22 death spiral and I think it yeah
It is and my belief is that we get it because we celebrate the wrong things, but I know you have some more thoughts
I'm gonna step off my soapbox
There's put my hand over my mouth. There is a
There it reminds me of a discussion
that I had with one of my
Mentees there's a guy who I'm training to be an agile coach
and
one of the
He wanted to have a discussion around. How do I how did he take the current system?
and better light up empowerment that with with some sort of the
the benefits of
Heroism but but align it towards business goals
and
We talked about a process
essentially similar to like the the 20% project that Google had
Has ish
Now our system that we do we have a
subjective way of measuring
How will we're doing in terms of delivering ROI?
Okay, so we have a way of sort of accounting for business value of the ticket expected and then sort of a validation
process at the end, okay, and I said well, here's an idea
What if we were to say?
From here on out
We'll do 20% type of project now for a typical employee. That's one day out of a five-day workweek. I
Said alright, here's something that I would be perfectly content with doing I could I could lay out a rule to my team
Hey team from here on out
we're going to be
Measuring and improving. What is the the rate at which we're providing ROI?
Okay, so measure of business over cost business value over cost if you guys have an idea
that and
Your idea is likely to exceed
the general rate
Meet or exceed the ROI that the team has been basically doing off of our backlog plan
You are permitted to just do it as long as it costs no more than one day
To to complete that effort you'd so as long as it costs no more one day and it's a higher ROI
Just do it. You don't even need to talk to me if you have an idea
It's gonna cost more than that
then you
You have to talk to me before we do it because I want to hear those things if there is a way that I can
Use my team's assets to provide higher ROI
fantastic
What that is beginning to do
When you when you when you have those type of conversations and you say business value first
everything else is is
Some form of guesswork
Then it changes their behavior they're focusing on this is my goal not
How do I make how do I make what I own?
Sound cooler than it actually is and then own it so that has the cheapest amount of effort required
right
Their goal is local optimization. Mm-hmm
Whereas I'm fine with local optimization as long as you're targeting
Something that the business values. I would love to be able to see in the longer term
I would love to be able to see people to have a simple equation. This is how much we paid you
This is the value we got out of you
This is this is a
Our profit margin on you Alan and then if it goes too high you're like hey
It's time for a promotion. I
Don't know I think you were a few years away, but I actually think that that's a goal that's achievable
Yeah, I think it's you're right that those things that ROI becomes more difficult to
measure in the generalist
Don't you think you need to have it a nice you never well give me an example
Not in it. So I'll give you an example. Thank you
I
met with with my my VP a couple weeks ago and
I said top of mine. What do you think is the number one thing? My new bosses org
Really needs to go after and he said he increased
Operational velocity of the team. Okay. Now if you think of those terms
That essentially means he wants
Quality to be high for the customer point of view
But he wants to
Sort of speed up
How long it takes to go from idea to quality?
From an operational point of view. So this means the engineering system
This means the the preventative gauntlet and this means the reactionary gauntlet
Right my my part in this particular problem is to help correct the customer goal
Now if you take those pieces and break it down further
Right. There's there's essentially this long ass workflow and
all of them
Would likely have their own little metric. Mm-hmm as well as measuring the whole system
right the reason why
His goal is harder
Is because there's there's probably I don't I'm making things up 20 different things that I got to
Consider as well as come up with a whole in the end measurement
How do I measure operational velocity and then how do I prove that I increased it?
So two things come into Miami and tell that story
Three things one is I think it's great. That's a VP's goal
I wish my VP had the same goals. I'll leave it at that
to
One of the ways I describe what I do is I'm a big fan of the lean startup and
What I do is try to improve or make more efficient the build measure learn loop
Yep sounds a little bit along those same lines
It is and then the other thing I'm a big fan of theory of constraints and figuring out where to optimize where not where it
It where there may be easy pickings, but it's not the best place to optimize
Looking at the system and figuring out this is the place where we need to target first and then we do that within and
Just watching the system changes you make tweaks to improve in different places
Like here's a thing where we take for granted takes a full day to do but actually
Do we need to what if we only did this much to still get the same value?
90% of the value in one hour instead of a full day. Yeah, let's make that trade-off. Yeah
The
You're exactly right and that's how I'm approaching
Yeah, because maybe we can get that other 10% back somewhere else where that isn't a bottleneck
But the first thing is I have to come up with a measurement for increasing operational velocity
That is agnostic to the system underneath. Yeah, and then drive that to be the goal everyone's going after
Because what I want is the high level goal to be the goal
so I want to
Discourage local optimization like if someone if someone discovers hey
We did this big goal. We break it down into these small pieces. We go this
Our ability to do deployments is the the bottleneck. Mm-hmm. So they speed that up. Okay, woohoo
Deployments have now shrunk to being only 1% of the cost of the originally were
But what they failed to notice is that by doing that the way they did it
They changed the process and now they've made two other pieces in the system three three times more longer focus more longer
Focusing on longer focusing on the end goal is really important. Look at that. Like in my case a build measure learn loop
I want to think how what is the cycle from I got some feedback. I made this change
I deploy this change I get new feedback that helps to
Validate or give me more information on what else to do with that change
how quickly can we do that whole loop and that goes from everything from the from
Local development to our CI system to deployment to data systems and how that data is analyzed how that gets back to the
Back to the developer. So there's a whole bunch of pieces in there
It's really easy to optimize in the wrong place
But the goal is however that first thing all kinds things can happen and all kinds of different things you can measure
But if you focus on that one goal of I want to do this and then also taking time to step back once
Well, make sure that this is actually important and actionable and maybe asking questions like I'm getting way off on a tangent here
But is it possible to get too fast?
like say
Let's table that for Nick. Okay. All right, but let me let me it's our time is done, but I want to add
One thing to you so that that time through the loop is known as cycle time
Okay, but when I was talking about increase operational velocity, right? There's really two things there number one
This this thing called operational velocity
Which which is its own distinct goal?
But in my ability to increase it so I want to be able to increase this operational velocity
But over time I also want to increase my ability to increase the operational velocity
So there's this concrete
KPI that I'm trying to move and then there's this cycle time which is sort of
The speed at which I can move it. So if you think of just the term velocity, which is distance over time
It's the same thing
There's something that I'm trying to move and there's a speed element in which it's the speed in which I'm trying to move
It I can pivot each of these things if I could
Increase the distance of movement in the same amount of time fantastic if I can
Same distance but increase the speed
Also fantastic or decrease the time. So a lot of these things are really two different things
Anyway, anyway, I think we're out of time. I'm pretty sure we're out of time
So thanks for listening to our 20th episode. We back for the big 21 soon and our
Anniversary episode. Thanks guys
We can't sing the song because it's cop we have to pay like a fee to someone
No, that one's on public domain. Is it? No, it wasn't for a long time. Is it? Yeah, it's public domain
But I don't really write day, but a anniversary anniversary. I don't know a happy anniversary. So never mind. All right, everybody
I'm not Brent and I am NOT Alan and we'll see you next time. See ya